2

SBTi terminology
This definition refers to the Science Based Target initiative's 
Corporate Net-Zero Standard
. The SBTi provides companies with guidance and recommendations on how to set science-based net zero targets.
SBTi recommends that companies take climate action outside of their value chains. This includes annual reporting on the nature and scale of their actions and investments.
Examples of beyond value chain mitigation include:
forestry - jurisdictional 
REDD+
 projects;
conservation projects - peatland or mangrove;
energy efficiency - cookstove projects;
methane destruction - landfill gas projects;
renewable energy - solar;
industrial gases - Nitrogen Oxide (N20) destruction at nitric acid facilities; and
scale-up of carbon dioxide removal technologies - direct air capture and storage.
Option 1
This option is a short form version of the definition.
Option 2
This option is a longer form definition with options that might be appropriate depending on the level of detail and ambition required by the parties.

Beyond Value Chain Mitigation Measures
 means actions or investments made by [a Company OR Party] to mitigate the impact of
 Climate Change 
that fall outside of [the Company OR Party]'s value chain. These include actions or investments by [the Company OR Party] that:
(a) reduce or avoid 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions;
(b) enhance the sinks of 
Greenhouse Gases;
 or
(c) remove 
Greenhouse Gases
 from the atmosphere.

Beyond Value Chain Mitigation Measures
 means actions or investments taken by [a Company OR Party] to mitigate the impact of 
Climate Change 
that fall outside of [the Company OR Party]'s value chain. This includes actions or investments by [the Company OR Party] that:
(a) reduce or avoid 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
;
(b) enhance the sinks of 
Greenhouse Gases
; or
(c) remove 
Greenhouse Gases
 from the atmosphere[.]
[These actions or investments should align with the recommendations of the Science Based Targets initiative ( SBTi )'s Corporate Net-Zero Standard (as amended from time to time)].