3

Option 1
This is a broad definition. It refers to the general transition to electricity as a power source across a wide range of applications but particularly transportation and heating.
In the context of net zero, the general assumption is that the primary motivation for electrification is a reduction in carbon emissions. However, the degree to which electrification results in reduced carbon emissions depends on how the electricity used is generated.
To exemplify this point, if you are negotiating or writing a contractual obligation to buy electric vehicle fleets or to only use systems powered by electricity, that obligation must be accompanied by a corresponding obligation to power those vehicles or systems with electricity generated from renewables.
Option 2
This is a definition for infrastructure project development and investment agreements.
Option 3
This option is specific to rail transport. It can be adapted easily to apply to other sectors (for example, road transport).
The definition presupposes that the contract it is used in contains the defined terms Rail Transport and Finite Power Source.
The ‘third rail element’ in this definition may be phased out over time. This is because third rail electrification is seen increasingly as a hindrance to faster rail travel (trains running on third rail systems can travel at top speeds of 100mph as opposed to 125mph using overhead power lines). As a result, this aspect of the definition is optional and in square brackets.

Electrification
  means [the process of] converting or replacing infrastructure, machines, appliances, devices and other objects which are powered by a Finite Power Source so that electricity is used as a permanent replacement power source.

Electrification
  means the conversion of a [town] [village] [region] [rural OR remote population] to a[n] [on-grid] [mini-grid] [off-grid] electrical power source.

Electrification
  in Rail Transport means the provision of an electrical power supply to previously non-electrified railway lines using overhead power lines [or an electrified third rail system].