4

Option 1
This definition includes modes of transport that are powered by fossil fuels but produce low emissions. This option may be useful in contracts during the transition towards green transport. If using the defined term Alternative Power Source in option 1, use the definition for Alternative Power Source in option 4.
Option 2
Option 2 defines green transport as modes of zero-emission transport only. This transport uses renewable energy sources or are powered by human forces (such as walking and cycling)!
Transition to green transport
In the future, the definition in option 1 might be replaced by the definition in option 2 (for example, when the sale of new conventional petrol and diesel cars and vans ends in 2040 as set out in the Government’s UK plan for tackling roadside nitrogen dioxide concentrations, detailed plan (July 2017)).
Green transport types include:
walking
bicycles
motorcycles (electric or biodiesel)
cars (electric or biodiesel)
buses (electric, hydrogen or biodiesel)
taxis (electric or biodiesel)
trains (heavy rail)
underground railway systems
light rail systems (such as trams, Docklands Light Railway)
aircraft (solar or biodiesel powered).
Option 4
The reference to alternative power source mirrors the definition of ‘power source’ at paragraph 5 of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure.

Green Transport
 means any mode of transport, conventionally motorised or powered by an [Alternative Power Source] [
Alternative Fuel
], which is classed by the UK Vehicle Certification Agency as an 
Ultra-Low Emissions Vehicle or a Zero Emissions Vehicle
.

Green Transport
 means any mode of transport which is powered by [an Alternative Power Source] [
Alternative Fuel
] or physical human force such that, when in operation, it produces [minimal] [almost no] 
Greenhouse Gases
.

Alternative Fuel
 means fuel or power sources which serve, at least partly, as a substitute for fossil oil sources in the energy supply to transport and which have the potential to contribute to its decarbonisation and enhance the 
Environmental Performance
 of the transport sector and includes the following:
(a) electricity
(b) hydrogen
(c) liquid or gaseous biofuels derived from biomass
(d) synthetic and paraffinic fuels
(e) natural gas, including biomethane in gaseous form (compressed natural gas) and liquefied form (liquefied natural gas (LNG))
(f) liquefied petroleum gas.

Alternative Power Source
 means all alternative sources of energy for transport, such as electricity and hydrogen, that do not have to be released through combustion or non-combustion oxidation.