This guide enables organisations to:








commit to measure, manage and report on their 
greenhouse gas emissions






set legally binding and enforceable emissions-reduction targets






consider and comply with reporting and disclosure requirements, especially on 
scope 3 emissions






commit to a plan to transition their business to align with 
Paris Agreement goals
.








Choose the appropriate documents






This guide is for any organisation. The example wording in this guide is written for a board resolution of a company but it can be just as easily used in corporate constitutional documents and by organisations that are not companies. It can be more difficult to amend constitutional documents, but including climate wording in them will have more impact. It will be harder to remove and will affect corporate governance frameworks and directors’ duties.






Commit to measure, manage and report on emissions at board level






Ideally, an organisation will measure:








its own 
greenhouse gas emissions
 (
scope 1 and 2
)






emissions from its value chain (
scope 3
).








Agree a reporting standard or a common supplier to calculate the company’s emissions. Domestic law might mandate a reporting standard. Where there is no legal requirement, use internationally recognised standards (for example, the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard
 or the 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
.






Measuring, managing and reporting on emissions should be approved by the board or most senior leadership team with ultimate responsibility for overseeing operations. Read our guide 
Factor climate considerations into board decisions
.










Example wording








[The Company] confirms that it measures, manages and reports its greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with [
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition 2015
, as amended periodically].






The directors of [the Company] nominate [name of director] to be responsible for ensuring that [the Company] measures, manages and reports on its greenhouse gas emissions.












Set emissions-reduction targets and timeframe






Ideally, the emissions-reduction targets will:








define the scope of emissions covered by the target. Best practice is to set targets relating to an organisation’s own emissions (
scope 1 and 2
) and emissions from its value chain (
scope 3
) as classified by 
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard






include short- (annual) and medium-term (2 to 5 years) interim targets






be validated by the 
Science Based Targets initiative
 or other international standard






align with the 
Paris Agreement goals 
and latest 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
 findings.








To affirm commitment to decarbonisation, organisations could also:








align their emissions-reduction targets with another internationally recognised standard for setting targets






join the 
United Nations Framework Convention of Climate Change’s
 
Race to Zero
 campaign.












Example wording






[The Company] confirms that it will:








reduce its scope 1 and 2 [and 3] emissions by [●] percent by [short- or medium-term year] from a [year] base year






set public annual emissions-reduction targets [that are validated by the Science Based Targets initiative]






join [
Race to Zero
] within [●] months of entering into this [agreement or resolution].












Develop a transition plan






An organisation's 
transition plan
 must contain concrete and measurable steps so that its decarbonisation strategy can be implemented and its emissions-reduction targets met within the agreed timeframe.






Check the latest guidance for your jurisdiction and international recommendations to ensure that your transition plan delivers credible and meaningful decarbonisation.






A best-practice transition plan should include:








interim 
greenhouse gas emissions
-reduction targets that align with the Science Based Targets initiative’s 
Corporate Net-Zero Standard
 or other international standard






short-, medium- and long-term actions to achieve the emissions-reduction targets






a plan for how meeting targets will be financed






if verified credits from a recognised 
offset provider
 may be used to 
offset
 any 
residual emissions






governance and accountability mechanisms to support the transition plan, including reporting, and linking executive remuneration to achieving interim targets






measures to mitigate risks to employees, stakeholders (for example suppliers, communities and customers) and the environment






measures to maximise opportunities for employees, stakeholders and the environment






promotion of a 
just transition
 to a low-carbon economy.








Publish decarbonisation objectives and report on progress






Ideally, an organisation will publish publicly an annual report on its progress to reduce emissions.






As part of the organisation's commitment to reduce emissions, outline the minimum requirements of what the report must include.






Check the latest guidance for your jurisdiction and international recommendations to ensure the organisation complies with reporting and disclosure requirements and standards.










Example wording






[The Company] confirms that it will report on its emissions-reductions progress annually and publicly. The report must include:








industry best practice on managing and reducing 
scope [1 and 2] [and 3] emissions
 used by [the Company] during the reporting period






total scope [1 and 2] [and 3] emissions measured during the reporting period






any reduction in the total scope [1 and 2] [and 3] emissions for the reporting period measured against the total scope [1 and 2] [and 3] emissions in the year preceding the reporting period






the difference (if any) between the total scope [1 and 2] [and 3] emissions for the reporting period and the emissions-reduction targets.














Case studies using the contractual solutions in this guide












Clauses using the contractual solutions in this guide












Glossary definitions used in this guide












Related guides