4

Net zero target setting
A number of countries have already set net zero targets (or have committed to do so) for reaching net zero emissions on timescales compatible with the Paris Agreement temperature goals.
The 
net zero tracker
 shows each countries’ targets and progress. Organisations must ensure that their own net zero targets are also compatible with the Paris Agreement temperature goals.
Increasing climate ambition
To increase the climate ambition of these definition, contract writers using this term need to include a requirement that the party adopt a 
near-
 and 
long-term Science Based Target
 validated by the 
Science Based Targets initiative
.
Option 4
The words 'all sources' in option 4 refer to 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions
. If you intend that the definition refers to only one or two of these categories of emissions, you will need to amend the reference to 'all sources'.
Interim target setting
To ensure that a net zero target is met, organisations and countries should set interim milestones that describe their trajectory to net zero. The appropriate trajectory will depend on the sector[s], level of ambition and available investment for the relevant entities or country, and is likely to be the result of advice from a 
Climate Professional
.
Net zero target date
The net zero target date should align with the organisation’s net zero target date. This will vary, but for many organisations their net zero target date will be 2050.
Distinguishing net zero from carbon neutral
While the terms 
Net Zero
 and 
Carbon Neutral
 are used interchangeably, the concept of net zero is distinct from carbon neutrality in several respects:
Carbon neutrality can be achieved entirely through offsetting, allowing companies to continue to emit greenhouse gases as normal.
Net zero, while it allows for some offsetting, requires companies to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to achieve the Paris Agreement’s temperature goals.
The 
Carbon Trust
 differentiated the two terms using PAS 2060, an internationally-recognised standard, to define carbon neutral and SBTi’s draft net zero definition to define net zero.
It is important to keep in mind that net zero and carbon neutral are distinct terms that mean different things. Contract writers need to use each term carefully and precisely in their contracts.

Net Zero Target
  means a target to achieve 
Net Zero
 by [2050 OR 
insert earlier date
] and validated by [the Science Based Targets initiative OR 
insert other standard
].

Net Zero Target
  means a target to reduce and remove 
GHG Emissions
, including by offsetting 
Residual Emissions
, to achieve a balance between [the Party’s] sources and sinks of GHGs. This must be achieved by [2050 OR 
insert earlier date
] and align with [the goals of the Paris Agreement OR 
Paris Agreement Goals
].

Net Zero Target
 means the goal of balancing a party’s emissions and removals of greenhouse gases. This must be done by [2050 OR 
insert earlier date
] and aligned with the 
Paris Agreement Goals
.

Net Zero Target
  means the net reduction of 
Greenhouse Gases (GHGs)
 from all sources to zero by [
insert date
] so that there is a balance between emissions by sources and removals by sinks of Greenhouse Gases that is consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement, taking into account the need for a just transition.