2

Net zero versus carbon neutral
Net zero and carbon neutral are often used interchangeably. However, they are not interchangeable as the concept of net zero is distinct from carbon neutral in a number of important respects:
Carbon neutrality can be achieved entirely through offsetting, allowing companies to continue to emit greenhouse gases as normal.
Although net zero allows for some offsetting, it requires companies to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to achieve the Paris Agreement’s temperature goals.
The 
Carbon Trust
 differentiated the two terms using PAS 2060, an internationally-recognised standard, to define carbon neutral and SBTi’s draft net zero definition to define net zero.
It is important to keep these important distinctions in mind and to make sure that each term is used clearly and precisely.
Option 1
If you use option 1, you will also need to use these additional glossary terms:
Greenhouse Gases (GHGs)
Paris Agreement Goals
.
Option 2
This definition sets out high level steps that a company needs to take to achieve net zero.
It also requires an independent expert to verify that the company has indeed achieved a state of net zero.
The definition deliberately refers to removing and reducing emissions first before resorting to offsetting. This is in line with 
SBTI's Corporate Net-Zero Standard
.
Parties can remove their scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions using neutralisation measures.
If you use option 2, you will also need to use these additional glossary terms:
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Offset
Residual Emissions
Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions
potentially, 
Just Transition
.
If using option 2, make sure that your contract contains operative provisions relating to the appointment of the independent expert.
Just transition
For more information on UNFCCC requirements for just transition, see the 
UNFCCC Just Transition of the Workforce and the Creation of Decent Work and Quality Jobs Technical Paper
.

Net Zero
 means a balance between [a party's] sources and sinks of greenhouse gases by [2050 OR 
insert earlier date
]. This is achieved by reducing 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 
and removing GHGs [to meet [the goals of the Paris Agreement OR 
Paris Agreement Goals
]].

Net Zero
 means the time when [the Project OR Company] [and its Affiliates] has, according to an Independent Expert done all of the following:
(a) reduced and removed its 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions
 to a level consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement
(b) fully 
Offset
 its 
Residual Emissions
(c) adhered to the UNFCCC requirements for a 
Just Transition
.