3

Paris Agreement goals 
The three goals set out in Articles 2.1 and 4.1 of the Paris Agreement are as follows:
the temperature goal
the adaptation and mitigation goal
the financial flow goal.
The goals are also known as the climate objectives. For further detail, see 
UNFCCC: What is the Paris Agreement?
1.5C Aligned or Paris Aligned?
This definition is very similar to TCLP's glossary term 
1.5C Aligned.
 While these terms are often used interchangeably, there are clear distinctions between the two.
Article 2(1)(a) contains two temperature goals:
holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C
pursuing efforts to limit that increase to 1.5C.
TCLP's glossary term 
1.5C Aligned
 refers only to the second temperature goal in Article 2(1)(a).
To be unambiguous about which temperature goal in the Paris Agreement the parties are aligning their targets and climate change mitigation measures with, TCLP recommends using 
1.5C Aligned
 rather than Paris Aligned.
Review
Organisations that set Paris Agreement aligned goals, 
Net Zero Targets
 or 
GHG reduction
 targets often also commit to keeping their goals and targets under review in line with developments in science and technology to achieve the three climate objectives. See TCLP glossary term 
near-
 and 
long-term Science-Based Target.
Climate policy
Organisations may also want to commit in their climate or environmental policy to not undertaking activities that hinder or are inconsistent with the climate objectives.

Paris Alignment 
(or 
Paris Aligned
) means that the 
GHG reduction
 targets and 
Climate Mitigation Measures
 of [the Company] support the achievement of the three goals set out in Articles 2.1 and 4.1 of the UNFCCC’s Paris Agreement[.] [, in particular pursuing efforts to limit global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius (1.5C) above pre-industrial levels].

Paris Alignment
 (or 
Paris Aligned
) means aligning with the three goals set out in Articles 2.1 and 4.1 of the UNFCCC’s Paris Agreement[.OR, in particular pursuing efforts to limit global temperature increase to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels].

Paris Aligned Investments
 means investments that are aligned with the Paris Agreement mitigation goal to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change:
(a) by holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels; and
(b) pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels.