Robyn's Questionnaire
A questionnaire which identifies the climate change risk expectations of an organisation and asks subcontractors/ suppliers to self assess across these criteria.
[About Us]
[
Drafting note: Clients/ Employers may wish to include background here in relation to company specific approaches or policies around sustainability
]. 
Subcontractor/ Supplier Guidance 
To improve our own sustainability targets as a purchaser and/ or provider of construction services, we must ensure that our supply chain is also accountable for the same or similar targets. All construction stakeholders should be responsible for managing their own environmental, social and governance (
ESG
) impact on a project, which should be shared with or flowed down to any other subcontractors/ suppliers.
This Subcontractor/ Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire (
SSAQ
) is intended to be used as a self-reporting system for subcontractors/ suppliers working on all aspects of a construction project to develop and accelerate climate risk and emissions reduction strategies. The SSAQ is used to establish a baseline of ESG practices and act as a management tool against which to measure performance improvements on a project. The aim is to ensure all stakeholders are aware of and accountable for targets that may be agreed. It is our expectation (as the Client/ Employer) that all members of our subcontract/ supply chain will be working to improve overall ESG targets during the life cycle of our projects. We therefore encourage all subcontractors/ suppliers to respond wholly and candidly to the SSAQ to ensure true baselines are recorded.   
This SSAQ should be used to streamline subcontractor/ supplier approaches and develop constructive dialogue between all involved, with the aim of strengthening relationships based on a shared ambition to achieve net zero targets in construction. 
To adequately self-assess and complete the SSAQ you, as a subcontractor/ supplier, will need to gather certain information about the project and your business. We suggest appointing an internal representative to gather such data (eg. Senior Manager, Human Resources or ESG director).
Please note that the SSAQ requires the gathering of limited personal data: we ask that you adhere to any applicable legal requirements relating to data and privacy (including under the 
General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679
). Any personal information collected in this form will be used solely for the purpose of determining whether to enter into a business relationship with your firm. [We may disclose and/ or transfer any such information to any group of companies, any of our business partners (if applicable) or advisers]. Please inform your [
insert client name
] contact should you need to amend the information that you have provided.
View the full SSAQ here: 
Robyn's Questionnaire - Essential notes and guidance
.